Creating the obstacles.
In this video, we'll cover creating new obstacles in using on collision events for hit detection.
We'll also look at documenting health for the damaged objects and using a unity event for communication.
We'll also swap out sprites in the sprite render to show when an object is damaged.
Creating the Obstacles.
This is a task breakdown here.
We're going to be creating the upset Duck prefab and C-sharp script.
Along with the upset duck prefab will add a world item script.
Then we'll add the Create Prefab and the Crate script and finally take a look at a very basic version
of the upset duck game script.
Our target image is shown here.
We already have the catapult and other graphics, but we're going to be adding the ducks and the crates
this time.
So we'll open up the project Section five Video three We'll look at the scene.
Upset Ducks three.
Let's open up unity here.
We're going to be looking at the upset Ducks three.
Now in this scene, it's got the familiar setup.
Now we have a pyramid of crates, though, that's new.
And also the birds themselves, which are the upset ducks.
We can go ahead and hit them.
The guy flaps a little bit and I can hit the crate and the creek gets hit hard enough.
It disappears.
You can see they react with a little facial expression and stuff.
So let's see how to set that up.
If we look inside the world, items here, which is got the docks themselves and the crates.
If we look at a crate, it has the following sprite render.
Rigid body box Collider world item and Crate World item is what manages the health and I got damaged.
The crate listens to that.
I got damaged message and it decides what to do about it.
In this case, it's going to disappear If too much damage was done later on in the future, video will
explosion as well.
Since the crate is set up, just like the duck will actually create the duck from scratch here in this.
So it has a similar set up sprite.
Render a collider a rigid body to DX.
World item and upset duck.
Same rule.
World item manages the health and damage and the upset duck decides what to do about that.
So let's get rid of those upset ducks.
And we'll get rid of the upset duck prefab.
Then we'll create one from scratch.
So we've got a lot of different frames here I'm going to choose to use.
The.
This idol one.
And then I'm going to add in the needed components we want.
In the world item.
So we have world item.
And then I'll drag in the upset.
Well, give us a name and make prefab.
Okay.
We look at the upset duck script and the world item script.
I guess we can see that the upset duck script wants a reference to world item.
And a reference to the sprite renderer.
And then a reference to some of the different.
Sprites that we have.
So if we run this one, we can choose.
Let's choose the.
Hero.
And then the hero one and the hero to where he's looking like he got hit really badly.
He's dead there.
And let's look at each of these scripts.
So in the world item, what's interesting is we use a unity event here to pass a float of how much was
I damaged?
Then down here inside the on collision enter.
We checked the velocity of the collision.
If it's too small, we skip right out and return and do any further code.
If it's a sizable enough damage, we calculate and we decrement the health and then we use on health
change, invoke damage to send out an event to any scope that cares and they can listen.
Then if we look at the upset duck script itself, what we do that's interesting here in the start is
we add a listener to that health change.
Now, the upset duck script can here any time the health changed on the world item, that's how that's
set up.
That's how the unity event works.
Then down here, when it changes, it's able to switch it to the dead sprite in the case that the health
is way too low or it can temporarily flicker to the second of the frames where he got hit.
But he's not quite dead in this script down here at the bottom just turns the Sprite render or Sprite
to one, and then after a couple of seconds, it's actually after a few milliseconds because they have
a small value there, it then will turn it back to the idle sprite.
So let's take a look at how that works altogether.
So we'll just take our guy here.
We'll duplicate a couple of them and we'll run the scene.
So watch when I hit.
You can see the orientation is a little off.
We could tweak that and tweak the directions and stuff.
That's fine.
What I want to show you is that as they're hit, they flap a little bit, and if they're hit too much,
then their eyes bulge out.
And that's it.
Thanks very much.
Oh, one more thing I want to show here is that the upset duck script, which if we take a look at that,
it's got very little stuff in it.
What it does here is it adds the asteroid on START, so it puts one in the catapult and then later the
crate.
When the crates had too much damage, the crate can say, Hey, will you destroy me?
And the crate will pass in itself.
And then here we do the destroy.
So that's it.
Thanks very much.
And in the next video, we'll take a look at adding win loss conditions.